fix: partial push & persistent query support for window bounds columns (#4401)
confluentinc/ksql: docs-md/developer-guide/create-a-table.md

description: Learn how to use the CREATE TABLE statement on a Kafka topic
---

In ksqlDB, you create tables from existing {{ site.aktm }} topics, create

> tables that will create new {{ site.aktm }} topics, or create tables of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tables that will create new {{ site.ak }} topics, or create tables of 
```

query results from other tables or streams.

-   Use the CREATE TABLE statement to create a table from an existing Kafka topic,

>     or a new Kafka topic.

Author: As above, KSQL can create tables that create their own topics.

SELECT * FROM users EMIT CHANGES;
```

Assuming the table has content, your output should resemble:

```
+---------------+--------+---------------+--------+--------+----------+
| ROWTIME       | ROWKEY | REGISTERTIME  | USERID | GENDER | REGIONID |
+---------------+--------+---------------+--------+--------+----------+
| 1541439611069 | User_2 | 1498028899054 | User_2 | MALE   | Region_1 |
| 1541439611320 | User_6 | 1505677113995 | User_6 | FEMALE | Region_7 |
| 1541439611396 | User_5 | 1491338621627 | User_5 | OTHER  | Region_2 |

> | 1541439611536 | User_9 | 1492621173463 | User_9 | FEMALE | Region_3 |

Author: updated inline with new format.

The table values update continuously with the most recent records,
because the underlying `users` topic receives new messages continuously.

Create a Table backed by a new Kafka Topic
------------------------------------------

Use the CREATE TABLE statement to create a table without a preexisting 
topic by providing the PARTITIONS count, and optionally the REPLICA count,
in the WITH clause.

> Taking the example of the users table from above, but where the underlying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking the example of the `users` table from above, but where the underlying
```

> Kafka topic does not already exist, you can create the table by pasting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kafka topic does not already exist, you can create the table by using
```

> the following CREATE TABLE statement into the CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the following CREATE TABLE statement.
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE users
  (registertime BIGINT,
   userid VARCHAR,
   gender VARCHAR,
   regionid VARCHAR)
  WITH (KAFKA_TOPIC = 'users',
        VALUE_FORMAT='JSON',
        PARTITIONS=4,
        REPLICAS=3
        KEY = 'userid');
```

> This will create the users topics for you with the supplied partition and replica count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This statement creates the `users` topic with the supplied partition and replica count.
```

> 

Author: Added details of how to have KSQL create a new topic for a new table.

```
 Query ID            | Kafka Topic  | Query String

 CTAS_USERS_FEMALE_0 | USERS_FEMALE | CREATE TABLE users_female AS   SELECT userid, gender, regionid FROM users   WHERE gender='FEMALE' EMIT CHANGES;

> 

Author: updated inline with current output format.

```sql
CREATE TABLE pageviews_table AS
  SELECT userid, pageid, COUNT(*) AS TOTAL
  FROM pageviews_original WINDOW TUMBLING (SIZE 1 MINUTES)
  GROUP BY userid, pageid

>   EMIT CHANGES;

Author: Removed `viewtime` from key of aggregation.

IMHO, having `viewtime` in there makes it a nonsensical example.  

Without `viewtime` the table being built counts the number of times a specific user visits each page within a single minute.   OK, that's a pretty wacky table, but it at least works.

With `viewtime` the table being built counts the number of times a specific user visits each page _within the same millisecond_ and then windowed it per minute.  It's highly unlikely a user can visit the same page twice within the same millisecond, so the count will always be 1. 

Hence, removed `viewtime`.

Your output should resemble:

```
+---------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+--------+---------+------+
| ROWTIME       | WINDOWSTART   | WINDOWEND     | ROWKEY           | USERID | PAGEID  | TOTAL|
+---------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+--------+---------+------+
| 1557183919786 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_5|+|Page_12 | User_5 | Page_12 | 1    |
| 1557183929488 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_9|+|Page_39 | User_9 | Page_39 | 1    |
| 1557183930211 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_1|+|Page_79 | User_1 | Page_79 | 1    |
| 1557183930687 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_9|+|Page_34 | User_9 | Page_34 | 1    |
| 1557183929786 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_5|+|Page_12 | User_5 | Page_12 | 2    |
| 1557183931095 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_3|+|Page_43 | User_3 | Page_43 | 1    |
| 1557183930184 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_1|+|Page_29 | User_1 | Page_29 | 1    |

> | 1557183930727 | 1557183900000 | 1557183960000 | User_6|+|Page_93 | User_6 | Page_93 | 3    |

Author: Updated with:
- current formatting
- to reflect removal of `viewtime` from composite key
- to reflect changes in `ROWKEY` and addition of `WINDOWSTART` and `WINDOWEND`.

^CQuery terminated
```

!!! note

>         It is possible for the same key to be output multiple time when emitting changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        It is possible for the same key to be output multiple times when emitting changes
```

>         to the table. This is because each time the row in the table changes it will be emitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        to the table, because each time the row in the table changes, the key is emitted.
```

Reviewer: I think "it" here refers to the key.

> 

Author: This is a common question asked by users, so good to explain how/why it can happen.

Look up the value for a specific key within the table by using a SELECT
statement.

```sql

> SELECT * FROM pageviews_table WHERE ROWKEY='User_9|+|Page_39';

Author: Updated to reflect the removal of `viewtime` from the composite key

```

Your output should resemble:

```
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+--------+---------+-------+
 ROWKEY           | WINDOWSTART   | ROWTIME       | USERID | PAGEID  | TOTAL |
------------------+---------------+---------------+--------+---------+-------+
 User_9|+|Page_39 | 1557183900000 | 1557183929488 | User_9 | Page_39 | 1     |

> Query terminated

Author: Update to:
- new formatting
- reflect removal of `viewtime` from composite key

Note: its intentional that `WINDOWEND` is not included. This functionality is not there yet.
